Methods of Detecting Malicious Code
In order to demonstrate the effectiveness
of various antivirus products,
we will start by scanning a popular
Meterpreter payload.
Using msfvenom, we will generate a
standard Portable Executable (or PE) file
containing our payload, in this case a
simple TCP reverse shell saved as
binary.exe.
Next, we will run a virus scan on this
executable.
Rather than installing a large number of
antivirus applications on our local
machine, we can upload our file to
VirusTotal,
which will scan it to determine the
detection rate of various AV products.
VirusTotal is convenient, but it
generates a hash for each unique
submission that is then shared with all
participating AV vendors.
As such, take care when submitting
sensitive payloads as the hash
is essentially considered public from the
time of first submission.
Based on these results, we can see that
many antivirus products detected our
file as malicious.
We will transfer the file to our Windows
client for later analysis.
In our terminal we set up a netcat
listener
to recieve binary.exe from our
Kali client.
And then with netcat we send binary.exe
to our Windows client.
And binary.exe awaits analysis on our
Windows desktop.
Before diving into evasion techniques,
we must first understand the techniques
antivirus manufacturers use
to detect malicious code.